
# Pulling Changes from Remote:

To get the latest changes from the remote that you or other team members have committed you need to pull changes locally.  
You can use `git fetch` to update your local .git folder with the current state of the remote repository.  
This will update the information your local Git knows about, it will not pull the new content into your repo, instead it lets you know what is different to the remote.  
You can use `git pull` to download the changes from the remote repository to your local branch.  
This merges remote changes into your local branch and incorporates updates from other collaborators or edits done on the remote.  
`git pull` is the common command to use and will default to pulling the upstream of the local branch. (upstream info in 7.Pushing.md)  
Note that when pulling sometimes merge conflicts can arise if collaborators have editted the same sections of the same files you have editted on your local. This will be detailed in the `12.Merging.md` section.

### Workflow Overview (updated for pulling!):
1. `git fetch` to update from the remote and see if there have been changes from team members (`git pull` if there are changes)
2. `git status` to check that everything is normal
3. Add new files or modify tracked files
4. `git status` to check that the new or modified files are in the unstaged
5. `git add <file/s>`
6. `git status` to check that everything is normal and no unexpected files will be added, add to .gitignore if needed
7. If you modify the same files or others you will need to `git add` them again and check with `git status`
8. `git fetch` before you commit to pick up any possible changes from team members (`git pull` if there are changes)
9. `git commit -m "Message explaining the file changes"`