
# Pushing Changes to Remote:

Pushing sends your local commits to a remote repository. This allows you to share your changes with collaborators.  
NOTE! Before pushing your edits (in fact before even committing), pull any updates from other collaborators using `git fetch` and `git pull` from the remote.  
This helps reduce/prevent merge conflicts when working on the same branch.  
- `git push` this will use the default upstream for your branch.
- Upstream: This is the branch connection to a set remote and branch name.
  -  This is automatically set if checking out a remote branch.
  -  You will need to set this if creating a new local branch.
  -  While pushing you can set this with `git push -u <remote> <branch>` (`-u` is short for `--set-upstream-to`)

### Workflow Overview (updated to include pushing):
1. `git fetch` to update from the remote and see if there have been changes from team members (`git pull` if there are changes)
2. `git status` to check that everything is normal
3. Add new files or modify tracked files
4. `git status` to check that the new or modified files are in the unstaged
5. `git add <file/s>`
6. `git status` to check that everything is normal and no unexpected files will be added, add to .gitignore if needed
7. If you modify the same files or others you will need to `git add` them again and check with `git status`
8. `git fetch` before you commit to pick up any possible changes from team members (`git pull` if there are changes)
9. `git commit -m "Message explaining the file changes"`
10. `git push` to send your commits up to the remote origin and share them with team members