
# GitHub Settings:

GitHub gives you control over your repo to customise and manage several features.

## User Settings
User settings allow you to manage your personal profile and customise your GitHub experience.  
In this section, you can update your display name, add a bio, and link your social media profiles. These details help others in the GitHub community connect with you.  
Appreance and Accessability give you options on the visuals.  
Notifications settings help you stay informed about activities related to your repositories and the accounts you follow. You can customise how and when you receive notifications.

## Access Settings
Access settings in GitHub let you secure and manage your account's authentication and permissions.  
You can update your password, enable two-factor authentication (ensure this is active), and add SSH keys or personal access tokens for secure access.  
Manage email addresses for notifications and recovery, and control repository permissions for collaborators.  
Review and revoke third-party app access, block users, or monitor organization audit logs to ensure account security.  

## Code, Planning, and Automation Settings
Repository settings allows setting the default branch name (main), and gives a list of all repositories you work in.  
Codespaces settings in GitHub let you configure cloud-based development environments for your repositories.  
Copilot settings are available, if you have a license from peronal or enterprise you can customise its features.  
You can also manage your GitHub pages.  

## Security Settings
Code security settings on GitHub are crucial for keeping your code safe.  
GitHub allows you to configure security features like dependency scanning, which automatically checks for vulnerabilities in your code’s dependencies.  
This also enables push protection for certain know secrets/passwords.

## Integration Settings
Integrations settings in GitHub allow you to connect your repositories with external tools and services to enhance workflows.  
You can install GitHub Apps or OAuth Apps to enable features like project management, notifications (e.g., Slack, Jira, Teams), or even add in code review AI.  

## Developer Settings
Developer settings in GitHub enable you to create and manage your own applications and OAuth Apps.  
Personal Access Tokens (PATs) provide secure API access for scripts or tools, with granular permissions and expiration options.

## Repository Specific Settings
This gives fine grained settings for available tab options, available PR merge options, renaming, and changing default branch.  
You can add collaborators to your private or public repositories at different access levels.  
Code and automation settings allow you to set up actions, webhooks, copliot, environments, and codespaces.  
Additional rules can be created to stop any force pushing and to only allow specific access roles to push to the main branch.  
Further settings allow you to enable to disable Github Integrated Apps and Dependabot at the repository level.  
Secrets and Variables can be created within the repository settings and can be stored safely and used in GitHub actions.  
**Note** that some of these settings require Team/Enterprise level accounts.