
# Tasks:

Below is a series of tasks that will help reinforce practical Git skills, focusing on everyday operations.  
Some of the tasks may be repetitive but it helps get used to making sure the branch you are working on and the files you are editting are done correctly.  

#### Task 1: New branch and text file
- Make sure to start from `main` branch.
- Create a new branch called `feedback` and switch to it.
- In the `feedback` branch create a new folder and text file `./feedback/feedback.txt`.
- Add and Commit the new file.
- Did you use `git status` along the way to check?
- `git push` the `feedback` branch up to the remote. (`git push -u <remote> <branch>`)

**Use this `feedback.txt` file to add notes or questions as you go through these tasks, there are additional requirements in some tasks**  
**Remember to use `git status` often in the following taks, I will not be mentioning it again**

#### Task 2: Modify a file

- Start in the `main` branch.
- Edit `src/main.js` to change the greeting message to something different, **do not commit**.
- Create a new branch called `feature/greeting-update` and switch to it.
- Note you can carry uncommitted changes over to a new branch when creating it.
- Commit your changes to this new branch and push it to the remote repository.

#### Task 3: Update a file

- Create a new branch named `docs/update-guide` from `main`.
- Edit the `docs/guide.md` to describe the new changes you added in `src/main.js`.
- Commit the changes in a branch named `docs/update-guide`.
- Push the branch to the remote repository.

#### Task 4: Create a new file (again?)

- Create a new branch named `feature/add-new-data` from `main`.
- Create a new file in the `src/` directory named `new_data.txt`.
- Commit the new file in a branch named `feature/add-new-data`.
- Add some random data to this file.
- Use `git clean -xdn` and then `git clean -xdf`.
- If you understand what happened add it to the `feedback.txt` file in the `feedback` branch as Task4: <Info on what happened>.
  - If you do not understand please read `15.FurtherInfo.md` line 13~15 and then redo this task making note of the output.
  - Sometimes you need to find or use unknown Git commands, always refer to help `git <command> -h` or documentation.
- Push the updated branch to the remote repository.

#### Task 5: Work with `.gitignore`

- Create a new branch named `feature/update-gitignore` from `main`.
- Edit the `.gitignore` file to ignore all `.log` files in the repository.
- Create a new `not-important.log` file in the root directory of the repo.
- Confirm that the `not-important.log` file is ignored by Git.
- Commit the updated `.gitignore` file .
- Push the branch to the remote repository.

#### Task 6: Create a Pull Request

- Using Github and create a `Pull Request` to merge `feature/update-gitignore` branch into your `main` branch.
- Look through the created pull request to find the file changes.
- Add these file changes to the `feedback.txt` file in the `feedback` branch as Task6: <Info on what happened>.
- Push the updated branch to the remote repository.
- Complete the `Pull Request` with a Merge Commit.
- Should you `git fetch` and `git pull`?

#### Task 7: Have a Pull Request Reviewed

- **Pair up with another person that was in the Git lesson and add them to your repo.**
- Create a new `Pull Request` on GitHub to merge `feature/greeting-update` branch into your `main` branch.
- Look through the created pull request to find the file changes.
- Have the other person comment on the changes and request additional changes in the `Pull Request`.
- Add the requested changes to the file.
- Update the `Pull Request` and have the other person approve the pull request if the changes were done correctly.
- Complete the `Pull Request` with a Merge Commit.

These tasks should provide a well-rounded experience to understand and practice the most common Git commands and workflows in a practical context.
---
<br>
<br>

# Tasks for next lesson:

**The following are preperation tasks for the next lesson:**

#### Prep Task 1: Prepare conflict part 1

- Create a new branch named `feature/prep-work` from `main`.
- Edit the `docs/guide.md` with 2 new lines at the top and 2 new lines at the bottom with any random text content.
- Commit the changes in a branch named `feature/prep-work`.
- Push the branch to the remote repository.

#### Prep Task 2: Prepare conflict part 2

- Create a new branch named `feature/prep-conflict` from `main`.
- Edit the `docs/guide.md` with 2 new lines at the top and 2 new lines at the bottom with any random text content that is different to Prep Task 1.
- Commit the changes in a branch named `feature/prep-conflict`.
- Push the branch to the remote repository.